# ID-Assignment-2
Repository for Alan Antony James's ID Assignment 2
# GoweatherApp ReadME
## What is GoWeatherApp?
GoWeatherApp is a web application that allows users to check the current weather of their city of choice. The app shows weather information such as temperature, windspeed, pressure etc. GoWeatherApp also recommends to the user a set of clothes base on the currrent weather conditions.
## User audience and purpose of the App.
### User Audience
* There's no such target audience for this app. 
* This is an app for the general public who might want to check the weather and get information in simple and basic terms. The user can be anyone  from Teenagers, Youths, Adults to Senior Citizen. Anyone can use it with ease.
### Intended Purpose and Fearures
* The sole purpose of the GoWeather App is to display weather and the suggested clothing in the most basic way possible. 
* The user can search up any city in the world and the app displays the current weather of that place and suggests clothing to wear.
* The website provides useful for people who want to plan ahead but and do not want their plans jeapordized by weather conditions.
* The current features are:
    * Display weather of input city.
    * Suggest clothes for based on weather and temperature.
* Potential Features:
    * A key to get the current location.
    * Display points of interest according to weather orr suggest activities to do.
### User Case
* The user wants to visit Sentosa with his / her family for a whole day. They plan 2 days ahead about what they'll do at Sentosa.
* On the day of the trip heavy rain and thunderstorm is happening and they had to return home.
* So to prevent such a condition the user can use GoWeatherApp.
## App Design
### Designing the layout
* I used a BootStrap template from GrayGrids to get started
* Modified some parts and made a window where I can work on
* Finally, coding the actual app
### API used(OpenWeatherMap)
* For this project I used a free weather API callled OpenWeatherMap.
* It's a standard weather API which takes in the City name as parameter and return current weather of that place.
* It's free for usage.
### Languages and FrameWorks used
* HTML
* CSS
* JavaScript(Vanilla and jQuery)
* BootStrap
### Some difficulties I faced
* I couldn't delete some files which were generated by my BootStrap template as they cause the webiste to not functtion properly. So I just decided to leave them as it is.
* Also I couldn't find a suitable API that suggest clothes according to temperature. So I used the RestDB.io database to make a table and used the JSON data
generated inside my JavaScript file
* The API of RestDB.io seems to have issues. I cannot use GET in order to obtain the JSON data. So I ended up using the JSON in the file as it is.
## Testing
### General Testing 
* Overall, The website functions really well as I want it to. 
* However the application keeps showing some JavaScript errors even after I removed the files from the template. 
* And since they don't affect the functioning of the app I am going to ignore those errors.
* The website works acrosss almost all devices and different browsers.
### Minor Issues
* Sometimes the API calls display the weather differently than it really is.
* The icons may not get displayed. In this case the website can be reloaded and it will work fine.
* The social media links in the App is just for illustrative purposes and they won't work.
## Sources And Links for the resources used
* Graphics and icons were from numerous sources such as FlatIcon, FreePik and DeviantArt and GrayGrids. I didn't do any special artwork for this project and all the images are from their respective sources.
* The API used is the popular weather API OpenWeatherMap. It's free policy allows enough calls to test the app.
* The BootStrap Template is from GrayGrids. The credit for some of the code in this project goes to GrayGrids.
## Links
### Resources used
* BootStrap Template - https://graygrids.com/templates/weather-apps-landing-page-free-bootstrap-template/
* Icons - https://www.flaticon.com/, https://www.freepik.com/, https://www.deviantart.com/
* OpenWeather API - https://openweathermap.org/api
* RestDB.io (JSON Data Link) - https://goweatherapp-1220.restdb.io/rest/clothing
### Acknowloedgements
I was also inspired by many youtube videos and Pinterest which helped me solve small errors:
* DevEd, Code Explained, The Coding Train are some mentionable Youtube Channels.
* Pinterest Designs
* All across the source code files there are snippets/code sections from the BootStrap template itself, especially in the CSS. The credit belongs to the respective author of the template.
* The demo video and Adobe XD wireframe can be found in the NETWORK FOLDER.
* The vaidators show a significant amount of warnings and 2-3 errors overall in the whole source code. But it does not affect the way the website functions. I have tried my maximum to reduce the number of warnings and errors. Some of them are left unsolved since they make the app crash when I
try to debug
### GitHub Page
* https://alanantony24.github.io/ID-Assignment-2/





